hi I'm Rhonda Shah with Triple A and
today I'd like to talk to you about safe
cycling tips for adults bicyclist aged
25 to 64 have made up an increasing
proportion of all bicycle deaths over
the past decade with most of those
killed or injured being males cycling is
becoming more and more popular and why
not it's a great form of exercise it's
good for the environment and it's fun to
ride but there are things you should do
before taking to the road to safeguard
yourself you should wear a properly
fitted bicycle helmet on every single
ride a helmet is the single most
effective way to prevent head injury
resulting from a bicycle crash it's also
important to remember that the rules of
the road applied to you just as they do
to cars that means obeying all traffic
signs signals and lane markings at all
times
you should also increase your visibility
to drivers by wearing brightly colored
clothing during the day dawn and at dusk
to be noticed when riding at night use a
front light and a red reflector or a
flashing rear light and use retro
reflective tape or marking on your
equipment and your clothing according to
the latest statistics from the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration
alcohol involvement was reported in more
than 40% of all fatal bicycle crashes so
don't drink and ride just like drinking
and driving a vehicle drinking then
riding a bike is very dangerous it may
also be a good idea to take an advance
skills course smart cycling classes are
taught across the United States by
certified League cycling instructors you
can find more information on bicycle
safety on sites such as share the road
triple a comm and bike league org for
how-to videos on any topic visit
monkey-see dot-com